Aim 3.a. – Calibrating, testing, and capturing disease signals using MGX and MTX
pipeline on a small initial pilot cohort.

All data and metadata can be found in SOURCE_pilot folder.

source_pilot_analysis_1.ipynb is the code for the following figure:

Figure 16: Heatmap of relative abundance of species of Sheba’s MG cohort as
identified by MetaPhlAn3.
	data: SOURCE_pilot/mgx/metaphlan/metaphlan_species.tsv
	metadata: SOURCE_pilot/mgx/metadata/samples_after_demultiplexing_Jan_06_2021_filename_first_col.csv


source_pilot_analysis_2.ipynb is the code for the following figures:

Figure 17: Heatmaps of DA of Sheba’s MG cohort between CD and control samples

Figure 18: Heatmaps of DA of Sheba’s MG cohort (Fig. 17) intersected with the significant
features from the HMP2 DA heatmap (Fig. 9).
	data: SOURCE_pilot/mgx/humann/ecs_relab_unstratified.tsv
		SOURCE_pilot/mgx/humann/pathabundance_relab_unstratified.tsv
	metadata: SOURCE_pilot/mgx/metadata/samples_after_demultiplexing_Jan_06_2021_filename_first_col.csv

Figure 19: Heatmaps of DA of Sheba’s MT cohort between CD and control samples.
	data: SOURCE_pilot/mtx/whole_metatranscriptome_shotgun/pathabundance_relab_unstratified.tsv
	 SOURCE_pilot/mtx/whole_metatranscriptome_shotgun/ecs_relab_unstratified.tsv
	metadata: SOURCE_pilot/mtx/metadata/14_Feb_2022_lab_mtx_metadata.csv
Figure 20: Heatmaps of Sheba’s R/D abundance ratio tables generated by bioBakery
Workflows3.
	data: SOURCE_pilot/mtx/rna_dna_ratio/paths/paths_ratio_fixed.tsv
	SOURCE_pilot/mtx/rna_dna_ratio/ecs/ecs_ratio_fixed.tsv
	metadata: SOURCE_pilot/mtx/metadata/14_Feb_2022_lab_mtx_metadata.csv

